---------------------------------------------------------
-- Batch Adventure documentation                       --
---------------------------------------------------------

Main Index:

1) About Batch Adventure
1.1) General information
1.2) System Requirements
1.3) Copyright Notice
2) Key Controls
3) Setting up Batch Adventure
4) Future Ideas
5) Trooble Shooting

Advanced information:

6) How is Batch Adventure built up?
7) How to make your own game?
7.1) The start
7.2) Hints 

Other information:

8) How to reach the author
9) How to be informed about Batch Adventure updates and other
    Pluk Productions products



1) --------- About Batch Adventure ----------------

1.1) --------- General information ----------------

BatAdv is an adventure game, completely written in batch.
The author is a mad maniac, who is not understood by the world. 
His schoolmates were making fun of him because he spent a few weeks 
programming a text adventure in batch (MWUAHAHA).
He quit school, got broke and landed in the gutter. 
A few friends told him to hold his chin up, and so he continued this 
programme. 

This story is about a guy who finds himself in a big mansion on an island.
The rest of the story is not written yet (because I figured I could never
 turn this into a working programme).
It's probably not half way finished right now, but you can ofcourse 
use the base program you are holding to create your own world.


1.2) --------- System Requirements -------------------

To play Batch Adventure you need: 
- A PC with MS-DOS 3.x or higher operating system.
- A Hard disk or floppy disk drive.
- The disk from which this game is played must not be write-protected.
  You must also pay attention that the files' read-only attribute is not 
  set. This will cause problems when picking up objects.
  When copied from CD-ROM, files are read-only.
Advised configuration:
- This game is a BATCH program. Batch programmes are read from disk line
  by line. This means there's a LOT of disk activity and little CPU
  activity. Therefore you'd rather play this game on 386 with a fast hard 
  disk than on a Pentium II 400 from the floppy disk drive.
- ANSI.SYS loaded. The game uses Ansi for colors in the game and for using
  the Enter key to confirm input. The game will work without ansi, but
  you will see weird codes on the screen when looking at an object and you
  will have to use the dot (.) key to confirm input.
- The faster your disk (drive), the better. 

NOTE: This game is tested on MS-DOS 6.2 and MS-DOS 7 (Win 95 DOS prompt)
      I see no reason why this game won't run on MS-DOS 3.0+, but since 
      I'm not perfect, I may be mistaken. 


1.3) -- Copyright Notice (and other stuff you don't want to read) ----

- This game may be distributed freely. 
If you like this game and you are willing to pay a small (or big) amount of
money for it, please feel free to transfer it to my ABN-AMRO acount number
40 65 77 489. 
- You may design a complete new game with the existing engine. Please keep
the engine (main.bat, addit.bat, b.bat) and this document intact and don't 
remove the programmer's name from the main screen. 
- Please consider this game as a huge batch tutorial. If you can use parts
of it in your own programs, go ahead. 
If you like me to explain parts of the program, or you need help creating 
your own program, please contact me by e-mail.
Remember: You can find pretty much info in your DOS tutorial or 
MS-DOS help.exe. 


2) ----------- Batch Adventure Key Controls ----------

You can choose one of these commands from the command menu
[g]et, [p]ut, [l]ook, [t]alk, [o]pen, [c]lose, [m]enu
Direction keys: [w]est, [e]ast... [i]n
Use Get and Put to pick up and drop objects. Giving an object to someone
also happens with Put.
Use Look to look at objects, rooms or persons.
Use Talk to talk to a person.
Use Open and Close to open and close objects or doors.
Use Menu to go to the main menu
Use the direction keys to go to an adjacent location.

After the get/put/look/talk/open commands you are asked to type the
name of the object. After you've typed the name, you can press '.' or
-if you are in ansi mode- Enter. If you make a typing error you can use
backspace to remove the word you have typed and start over again.
With Esc you can cancel the input.
 
In the main menu you can choose to save or load a game, quit or
continue the game, or enter this help screen.


3) ------------- Setting Up Batch Adventure ------------

The game setup in BatAdv is done by setting environment variables in the 
CONFIG.BAT file. example:
set basedir=C:\BATADV
set ansi=on
set curroom=Corr1
basedir holds the directory in which BatAdv is installed. (In this case
C:\BATADV)
ansi can be ON or OFF. Setting ansi to ON makes the game use colors and
special keys like Enter. Make sure you have your ANSI.SYS loaded by placing 
the line DEVICE=C:\DOS\ANSI.SYS in your CONFIG.SYS file.
NOTICE that most objects have Ansi codes in their description. These codes
are also displayed when ANSI.SYS is not loaded. The text will be messy if you
try to display the description of these objects when ANSI.SYS is not loaded. 
The 'set ansi=off' option is only useful if you want to test the game and
for some reason you cannot load ANSI.SYS.
The curroom variable holds the room in whitch the game is started.
THIS SHOULD NORMALLY NOT BE CHANGED BY THE USER.
If you are making your own game with this engine, you should enter your
own starting room in the curroom variable.


4) ---------------- Batch Adventure Future Ideas ----------

Talk is implemented now, but the game needs persons to talk to.
For the moment only one game can be saved and loaded. It would be a lot
nicer if multiple games could be saved.
Saving doesn't work THAT properly though.
The story for now is NOT interesting. I need ideas for a story, and these
ideas need to be implemented. This takes time. 
I'm working on an idea that saves about a quarter of the amount of files. 


5) ------------------- Trouble Shooting --------------------

Things that can go wrong:
1) - When you start the game you see a message like
"Insufficient space in environment" 
This means that there's not enough space to assign environment
variables. Start the game with B.BAT instead of MAIN.BAT.
B.BAT starts a new instance of COMMAND.COM with more environment space
2) - "An error occurred! Errormessage"
This means an error occurred during initialisation. 
probably due to a missing file. Check if basedir is set correctly 
in CONFIG.DAT.
3) - "File not found."
This means that a game file is missing. Probably an Init.bat or a 
Roomdesc.Bat in the room you want to enter.
4) - You start the game and see funny looking arrows followed by a '[' and
a few letter codes.
This means Ansi is set to ON in CONFIG.BAT, but ANSI.SYS is not loaded, or
your PC does not support Ansi. Load the ANSI.SYS file, or set Ansi to Off in
the CONFIG.BAT file.



-- Advanced Information ----------


6) --------- How is Batch Adventure built up? -----------

Like many programs BatAdv is built up something like this:

--- Start up
--- Initialisation
+--- Main loop:
|  input 
|  processing
|  output to screen
+---
--- Exit

In BatAdv this is done this way:

-  Start up: The game is started with B.BAT.
B.BAT starts a new instance of COMMAND.COM with an environment space big 
enough to hold all environment variables used in the game. 
In this new environment the program MAIN.BAT is started - The Main Program -

-  Initialisation: CONFIG.BAT and ANSI.BAT
CONFIG.BAT and ANSI.BAT are called by the Main Program
In CONFIG.BAT a few configurations are done. These are
set basedir=path  sets the directory in which BatAdv is installed
set ansi=on/off   sets wether or not ansi must be used in the game
      (Attention: ANSI.SYS must be loaded if you want to use ansi)

In MAIN.BAT the curroom var is set. This indicates in which room the
player starts. The reason that this setting is done in MAIN.BAT and not
in CONFIG.BAT is that this setting should not be changed by the player, 
but only by the game creator.

ANSI.BAT is used when ansi=on is set in CONFIG.BAT
It sets environment variables that indicate Ansi Escape sequensies (AES).
The AES that are set are colors and and other control values.
The color AES' are built up of 2 letters.
the first can be either an 'F' or a 'B' which indicates Foreground or 
Background color. The second is the first letter of the color:
(BL)ack, (B)lue, (G)reen, (C)yan, (M)agenta, (Y)ellow and (W)hite
The control values are RS, BOLD, BLINK and REVERSE.
RS disables the other control variables and sets the color to white on black.
BOLD in combination with a color displays the bright version of the color.
(Bright Yellow is yellow, normal yellow is brown.. weird)
BLINK makes the text blink, REVERSE reverses the foreground and the 
background color.

-  Main Loop
In the main loop, the data is gathered to put on the screen.
This data contains the results of the last command, the items in the 
current room, the items in player's inventory, the exits and the 
roomdescription of the current room.
Then, the program waits for the user to press a key.
The player can now choose one of the following commands:
get, put, look, talk, open, close, menu
north, east, south, west, up, down, in
When the player choses get or put the programs checks if it can find the 
program get.bat or put.bat. If not, the default get or put routine is
executed. This is usually the case.
It's best to check the comments in the MAIN.BAT program to see how each 
function works.

-  Exit
On the program exit the used variables are reset and (if ansi is on) 
the Enter key is reset to return an Ascii 13. (Do NOT terminate the 
program by Ctrl-Break when ansi=on. Doing this will cause your Enter key
to return a '.'. If, for some reason, the program is terminated the 
'wrong way' and your Enter is flipping, you're in trouble. If you're in 
Win 95 Dos prompt, you can switch to Windows and close it. If you're in 
DOS mode or an earlier version of DOS, you'll have to reset your computer 
since you can't start any programs anymore.


7) -------- How to make your own game? --------------

7.1) ------ The start -------------------------------

It is very easy to make changes in the current game like adding locations 
or items or even persons (this is somewhat harder, though).
Just look at a location (Like corr1, which is the main hall of the mansion)
check what files are in this room, how these files are built up and try to
change some things.
Two files are needed in a room: ROOMDESC.BAT and INIT.BAT
ROOMDESC.BAT contains the description of the location. 
INIT.BAT contains the initialisation of a location. In this file is set
which way the exits are, and in which location you arrive when you go there.
You can also use this file for conditional entrance. See the example 
of moving from ENTRANCE to GARDEN1. The INIT.BAT file checks if the player
has got a key in his/her inventory. If not, the player is sent back to
the entrance.


7.2) -------- Hints for making your own game ------------

- Design a map and devide it into locations, draw the connections between
  these locations.
- It might be a good idea to put all the roomdesc.bat files together in one 
  file. You can use the name of the location as the label to jump to.
  This method saves files and thus room since a file of about 300 bytes 
  uses a whole cluster varying from 4kb to 32kb! That is 100 times as much
  space. If you use a program like doublespace or so, this might not be 
  useful.
Note: The reason I've not implemented the last hints is that it's a LOT 
  of work, and I first want to finish the game.
  (I may write a conversion program to do this. If it's done, you'll see it
  on the  internet.)


8) --------- How to reach the author -----------------

You can write to:
Jos Visser
Groen van Prinstererstraat 77
2953 BD Alblasserdam
The Netherlands

(Preferably not) phone to:
NL +31 078-6915997  

e-mail to:
rjpaap@globalxs.nl

visit my homepage at:
DARN.i-got.no.homepage.com


9) --- How to be informed about Batch Adventure updates and other
    Pluk Productions products ----------

As soon as I get a homepage, I will put my updates there.
Send me an e-mail and ask me. I will remember your adress, and tell you 
when I make either a homepage or an update to BatAdv.

